Sprint 4 Project README
link to Tableau document:
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/sam.theilen/viz/SamTSprint4Project/3_3AverageProfitLossofHighestReturnedItems

Part 1: Profits & losses

1.1. The two biggest profit centers are the  sub-categories for copiers and phones as illustrated in slide 1.1 Profit by Sub-Categories. Per the same graph, the two biggest loss makers are the sub-categories for bookcases and tables.

1.2. There are many products that seem to be sold for a net loss. The graph on 1.2 Least Profitable Products shows the 20 least profitable products sold. The top 3 losing at least $5,000 each year, the top item losing over $20,000 annually. It is my recommendation to stop selling the GBC DocuBind P400 Electric Binding System, the Cubify CubeX 3D Printer Double Head Print, and the Bush Advantage Collection Racetrack Conference Table.

1.3. The chart present on slide 1.3 Sub-Categories Net Profit shows the total profit for each sub-category. Based on the information present in this chart, it is my recommendation to focus efforts on copiers, phones, and accessories while stopping to sell tables, bookcases, and supplies.

Part 2: Advertising

2.1. The 3 best combinations of states and month to advertise in are Washington in March, Indiana in October, and Vermont in November. The charts on 2.1 Optimal State/Month for Advertising (Average) and 2.1 Optimal State/Month for Advertising (Sum) show these location/time correlations as the highest averaging profit centers. If we were to allocate 20% of the potential profit from these areas to spend on advertising to further increase profits, the chart on 2.1 Spending Limit for Advertising shows the amount of money that should be allocated by location and month.

Part 3: Returned Items

3.1. Returned field has been made into a calculated field.

3.2.1. The chart on 3.2.1 Highest Return Products shows the top 10 most returned items. The highest 2 items both returned 6 times were the "While you Were Out" Message Book, One Form per Page and the 4009 Highlighters by Sanford.

3.2.2. The chart on 3.2.2 Highest Return Customer shows the top 10 customers that have made returns. The customer with the most returns is SV-20365 with 14 returns made.

3.3. The charts on 3.3 Average Profit Loss of Highest Returned Items show the average amount of money lost on the worst selling products with the sub-categories highlighted. We can see that binders lose the most money across a single product with machines coming in second across multiple products. This single binder would be something to consider stop selling since the category in general doesn't seem to be selling poorly, just this one product, while machines in general make up for a decent collection of items that lose money. The selection of products in the machine sub-category could stand to be reviewed.