Sprint 5 Project README
link to Tableau document (Sprint 5 Project V1.2):
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/sam.theilen/viz/Sprint5ProjectV1_2/Story1?publish=yes
links to recording on Google Drive (Project 5 Recording V1.2):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KRAzfuTlq_JK8saoSZal1fV9J_-HuIxt/view?usp=sharing

1.1. Summary of analysis of returns:

Returns should be measured by the average return rate and the total cost of returns. The ideal measure is dependent on the information you are looking to get. The rate of return will show which items consistently do not sell well and the total of the returned items will show the negative impact of an item that get returned more often.

The root of returns seems to be impulsive buying. Peak return months in August and December, back to school season and Christmas, imply that returns spike after periods of encouraged spending.

1.2. Overview of each dashboard component:

Return Rate by Customer:
Line graph showing the percentage of returns made by customers who make the most returns.
Interpreted as showing the frequency and amount of returns by the customers that return the most. Something is wrong when customers have made over 200 purchases and returned over 90% of those purchases.

Sales vs Returns by Sub-Category
Scatter plot depicting the sub-categories and how they compare against each other in regards to the amount of money they make and the frequency in which returns for these sub-categories are made.
Interpreted as showing the sub-categories that are returned the most often. Office supplies appear to have the most items that don’t make a profit, but it is technology that is returned the most despite bringing in the highest profit.

Return Rate by State
Map showing the average rate of returns by location, noting the average and number of returns.
Interpreted as highlighting the predominant states in which returns are made. The concentration appears to be on the west coast.

Return Rate by Category
Line graph showing the rate of returns for categories.
Interpreted as showing the percentages of returns. Over a quarter of all purchases across every category result in returns. 

Return Rate by Month
Line graph showing the differences of returns from month to month.
Interpreted as showing rate of returns across all months. Returns are constantly around 20% year round with noticeable increases during the christmas holiday season and back to school time. 

Total Sales vs Average Return
Combination of a bar chart showing the total sales and a line graph showing the average return broken down month to month.
Interpreted as trying to show the correlation between total sales and returns. These should be fairly similar, if more products are sold then there’s a better chance of returns, but these don’t seem related at all. The cause of returns is something else.

1.3. Demonstration on how dashboard should be used:
Filters available to view specific data, but abundant returns overall appear to be the issue.
Recommendations going forward: (covered in conclusion)

1.4. Conclusion and proposed next steps:
We can’t know why customers are making so many returns without more info, we should require a survey with every return to further identify why so many returns are occurring.
For large cost items, we could implement a restocking charge to discourage returns made. Buying should be easy, returns shouldn’t be difficult, but should be something customers don’t take lightly.
